# Zoom

Some online workshops use Zoom - the workshop organizers will say if
this is needed.

* If you attend a **livestream-only workshop**, you do not need Zoom.
* If you attend a **livestream workshop with Zoom exercise sessions**,
  you need Zoom just for the breakout session part.
* If this is a **Zoom workshop** everything here is needed.


## Installation

We recommend that you install the Zoom client (<https://zoom.us/download>).

You could possibly do this only from a web browser, but for such a
long session, the quality is likely to be higher with the application
installed.  If you use a web browser, we have noticed that Safari and
Firefox don't always work.  Chrome usually does.


## General hints

You should also be able to share your screen during the exercise
sessions in teams, because this is the key to working together well.
Remember to keep private information away from the screen you share!

Breakout sessions in teams are small and interactive, so you will be
encouraged (but not forced) to use your camera.  If you don't want
the physical room you're in to be visible on the webcam, Zoom allows
users to [set up a virtual
background](https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/210707503-Virtual-Background).

**One computer for video/chat and one for doing the exercises?** You can use
Zoom in a web browser (Chrome) on the exercise computer in order to
share the screen, since screen sharing is *very* important for
productivity.  Have the second one join like normal, with no audio,
same name (you can put "(screen)" at the end to distinguish them, and
if we don't notice ourselves, ask it to be put in the same breakout
room.


## Verify installation

Join one of the pre-workshop installation verification sessions.  If
Zoom works in any other event, it will probably work here, too.


## Zoom signals and mechanics

We'll go over this in the workshop introduction, but you could get
familiar with the [zoom signals we will
use](https://coderefinery.github.io/manuals/zoom-mechanics/).
